Duplication checking in Pybliographer -*- outline -*-
-------------------------------------


* The need for duplication checks

   It is perhaps not overly evident, that we need a duplication check
   mechanism, he who has experience with the modern environment,
   however, knows, that it is a very important component. 

   Basically we want to make use of the manifold ressources available,
   we want to use them freely without regard to artifacts arousing of
   multiple cataloguing sources, repeated queries (very important in
   practice!), and, of course, without the need to *plan* in advance
   for the integration of new, and the deletion of redundant records. 

   For a discussion see: Jeremy A. Hylton: Identifying and Merging
   Related Bibliographical Records, (M.A. Thesis, MIT, 1996
   MIT-LCS-TR-678) and Wolfram Schneider: Ein verteiltes
   Bibliotheks-Informationssystem auf Basis des Z39.50 Protokolls (DA,
   Technische Universit"at Berlin / Konrad-Zuse-Zentrum f"ur
   Informationstechnik, 1999)
   

* The challenge

   ``The key challenge to providing such a service is integrating
   mixed-quality bibliographic records, coming from multiple sources
   and in multiple formats.'' (Hylton)

   - Integration: not only getting the best record, but getting en
     even better one, using the available information as far as
     possible.
   - Mixed-quality: this precludes the use of simplistic methods, that
     reduce the problem to one of computing equivalence classes of
     records (one being acting as  representative).
   - Multiple sources: this compunds the problem because this makes
     any  simple explicit relationship between the records impossible.  
   - Multiple formats: that is not really a complication, because we
     have to deal with imperfect data on a semantic basis, in any
     case. See Schneider for a discussion of problems arising from
     errors during data entry, but also, surprisingly, different
     usages and interpretations of the rules (RAK with MAB2 format).


* Note

   Hylton notes, paralleling a feeling that I had for a long time,
   that one should provide for the ability to trace a recors as to its
   source. E.g., one should record where it came from. 























$Id$

