Draft Schema for PYBLIO	XML FORMAT (PBX) 
----------------------------------------

MISSING: Attributes, control of main entry, etc.



* Overview

  bib = 
      author-association *
      extended-title +
      general-description +
      contents-description *
      [general-notes]
      [numbers-and-codes]
      [analytical-description]
      [local-information]
      holdings *
      annexes *
      [administrativa]
      
**  General remarks
    
  The sequence of elements (in SGML-parlance) is not so important,
  generally, and more or less customary. The cardinality is, however,
  important and up to discussion. Also the distiction made between
  sort of sections like [local-information] and element sequences like
  holdings *. This is possibly premature or wrong.

  To explore are: (i) the use of multiple languages, e.g., annotations or
  abstracts in more than one language; (ii) generic facilities for
  notes and local data; (iii) attributes, e.g.,  to control the choice
  of main entry.

**  Compatibility

  Internally, the data format would evolve from a dictionary towards a
  record, with the dictionary possibly kept for less structured data.

  With BibTeX, it would be necessary to add field types. Example:
  We have author, editor fields, these should be usually generated
  from the database, so I would add a field X_perso_ref and code it:
     X_perso_ref = "122345 (50) 234567 (10) 345678 (12)" or code
     X_perso_ref = " * ..." 
  to suppress this generation, but allow the linkage. The codes 
  in parentheses give the role (0 = author, ...) allowing the
  selection of either author or editor fields. 
  
**   Entry Masks

  I hope that it will be possible to have most of the information on
  one screen, with additional screens as needed. 

    1. Main screen
    2. Persons
    3. Hierarchy (In German I'd say Gesamttitel/Bandaufführung)
    4. Additional description and analysis
    5. Adminstrativa and numbers
    6. Indices 
    7. Holdings and local data
    8. Annexes, annotations, and similar out-of-line information
      
  An alternative might be to use an XML editor...

* Author, Editors, and the like

  An author association is given by the database ref (a number) and a
  relator code (0  = author, default). A textual note may be added --
  this should be possible everywhere. I see no reason why this should
  not equally well handle corporate bodies and similar quasi-persons,
  which are more or less assimilated to authors. The major difference
  is in the structure of the names, something outside of the
  bibliographic entry proper. 

* Extended Title

  One title is, of course, necessary, it may be made up after all if
  none is given.   Multiple titles may be an elegant way of handling
  parallel titles or translations, or even variants. Titles are in
  library practice rather complicated -- containing subtitles and the
  statement of responsibility, this is something most will wish to
  omit, but which may be necessary in special cases. It could be
  considered a note. 

  The edition statement is logically (not formally) part of the title,
  and potentially complicated, because it may contain a statement of
  responsibility as well; we could treat it as a note in its own
  right, but for the edition number, which is in certain environments
  an important part of the bibliographic description. An open question
  is the treatment of analogous information for computer files, like
  date of modification or access, version number etc. 

* General Description

  Here I lump together informtion that has one thing in common,
  viz. its presence and content are much more than usual dependent
  upon the formal nature of the piece on hand. E.g., an article in a
  journal has journal (-ref) and volume etc. (location), as a reprint
  or copy, the same article carries (hopefully) a filing place, and as
  an electronic copy its a filename. Knowing a part of this
  information, e.g., the journal title, allows one to infer much of
  the structure of the remaninig information, as it is usually
  possible to conclude from the inclusion in a certain monograph
  series, the place of publication and so on.

  Making this element repeatable makes it perhaps easier to handle the
  situation of multiple representations, which is not so uncommon.
  
  The standard bibliographic data formats do not usually handle this
  well. (MARC has a field 773, example from Maxwell's Handbook for
  AACR2R:

	245 14 |a The loved one / |c by Evelyn Waugh
	300    |a p. 78-159; |c 17 cm
	773    |t Horizon |g Vol. 17, no. 98 (Feb. 1948)

  Note that the interpunction is not generated!)
  

* Content Description

  The parts of an bibliographic entity are recursively described
  here, if we want. This is, I hope, much easier and cleaner than the
  AACR/MARC practice of stufing his information into notes, losing
  thereby much information. (Stuffing his into a 505 field, ...)

* General Notes

  The author of the Unimarc XML Dtd wondered whether it be better to
  abolish the Notes section (Unimarc 3xx fields) and distribute the
  notes over the entry, near the primary information it is related
  to. I'd do so, generally. Do this section may be redundant.

* Number and Codes

  Could be distributed, perhaps, as well. Some of this information is,
  however, frequently used and prominently advertised; so at least the
  data entry may use this section for better organisation.

* Analytical Description

  Subject headings and classification codes are the common tools
  here. For articles we have often abstracts, and may want to add our
  notes. I add, (i) internal references may be used for information
  related to an author, as when describing a biography or a
  Festschrift, this could be extended, in principle, to other topics
  as well; (ii) simple keyword lists are quite useful  to handle
  orthogrphic and terminologic differences.

* Local Data

  This is a category, in the standard formats, to keep the data clean
  for the exchange (in Unimarc it is called national data).
  
  The wish has been expressed, that a working group could share the
  bulkk of the data with each individual able to keep his private
  notes apart; so it may be interesting to have a local-data wrapper
  around all elements that shold not be shared. 

  In addition I would like to have a notes/action area in the main
  screen. 

* Holdings

  Allow multiple institutions, then it can serve as a cache for
  catalogue information, in addition to the obvious purpose. 

* Annexes

  I remember an application report where the entry was extended to
  allow one to pin down temporary or occasional information, like on a
  catalogue card (not an official one, of course). It is perhaps
  better to allow in this way for the inclusion of unspecified
  elements, than to restrict oneself to the strictly bibliographic
  subset. Of course, in lieu of an element, we would often expect a
  link. -- In addition there is the problem of source data which one
  does not want to discard, at least for the time being. 

  Examples:
    Data from an existing bibliography is converted, and the input needs
  to be available for comparision until the entry is checked, which
  may take some time. 
    An annotation file is created consisting of notes and quotes, there
  should be links in both directions. The other way round this is just
  a couple of links to places where the entity is cited/quoted. This
  are not bibliographic data per se, but not completely unrelated
  neither. 
    
  So this is a pragmatic category.   


* Administrativa

  There are two classes of information that fall into this category:
  data related, and mostly automatically generated, to the
  bibliographic information (e.g., the database name and date for an
  entry that is imported, and notes pertaining to the described entity
  itself. (This is all local data.)
